well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again two things kept running across my
newsfeed yesterday and I can't help but
think that they're related
the first was teachers asking people to
help them clear the lists teachers
appealing to the public for the supplies
they need to do their job that's sad
that has said no teacher should have to
do that the other was the president the
United States wanting to nuke a
hurricane Wow okay well I'm gonna pause
for a second that won't work just just
just go and clear that up now that will
not work the heat energy released by
hurricane is a whole lot more than a new
a whole lot more than several nukes per
minute if you nuclear hurricane you get
a radioactive hurricane anyway I think
those two things are related and I know
what you're saying
Trump didn't attend a woefully
underfunded school he's just like that
now Trump isn't a product of those
woefully underfunded schools he and
those like him are the cause of it they
are the cause of it why because we love
the uneducated remember him saying that
I love the uneducated America as a whole
loves the uneducated the establishment
does because the establishment has no
use for educated people might decide
that you can run your own life you don't
need them you might interfere with their
profit margins so policymakers demand
that schools create worker bees not
thinkers teach them just enough so they
can get a job hearing that a lot now
right
the market marketability of the skills
job skills and the educator in the
classroom well they can't really do much
beyond that I can't fight all of society
and all of society is now geared against
them because 250 years less than to go
from Thomas Jefferson saying educate and
inform the whole mass of the people they
are our only sure reliance for the
preservation of our Liberty to parents
asking teachers well why does my kid
need to know this and silently wondering
why they're losing their freedom but
money isn't really the answer not on its
own don't get me wrong no teacher should
ever have to appeal to the public and
rely on the generosity of the public to
get the tools they need to do their job
when those tools should already be
provided by the system that we're
currently in that shouldn't happen but
money alone isn't the answer teachers
need more resources yes but throwing
money at it isn't a magic bullet like
most forms of magic doesn't exist
although that's what we always look for
when we have a problem in the United
States we look for that one thing
that'll solve it it's not how it works
it's not how it works I know right now
somebody's gonna Bo study show that
schools with more money produce better
outcomes yeah that's true but that is
true but what if that is a side effect
of the cure rather than the Cure itself
during World War 2 there was a guy named
Abraham Wald he was mathematician
the Air Force had gone through and drawn
up diagrams showing where their bombers
were getting shot at shot up where all
the bullet holes were he got his hands
on them got his hands on those diagrams
some of the planes well they were just
riddled with bullets in certain areas
and it looked like it was pretty much
the same areas in all the diagrams and
on some of them they weren't shot up in
some areas at all no bullets ever hit in
these areas the Air Force wanted to
armor those that were riddled with
bullets armor those areas that were
riddled with bullets makes sense right
well Abraham had a different idea he's
like guys you're wrong you need to armor
the areas that were never shocked what
mm-hmm he was right
took a minute and he explained guys
you're looking at the planes that made
it back
so rather than showing the frequency of
where bullets hit it showed where planes
could take bullets and still a turn
those planes and those diagrams that
showed all those empty spaces that never
got shot up it's because those planes
crashed after getting shocked they
armored the areas that didn't get shot
up in the diagrams save thousands of
lives we do the same thing and what
we're talking about public education
yeah more money increases outcomes of
those who graduate we're looking at the
planes that made it back not those that
crashed if you look at those that
crashed we have four main reasons
there's others but there are four main
ones I was failing too many classes
that's number one
so education was not important
didn't put forth the effort couldn't put
forth the effort because you didn't have
support structure at home whatever
education was not really that important
I was bored
education is not its own reward
education is not important
number three I became a caregiver had a
baby number four school wasn't relevant
to my life education is not important
when you look at those and understand
the three that deal with the view of
Education that's more than 70% gave
those reasons it's crazy it is crazy
because what it shows is that it's the
attitude towards education because
education is no longer its own reward
we focus on graduation getting that
piece of paper the reality is the
benefit of Education occurs every day
and with our society the way it is being
instant gratification you're asking kids
to plan for a goal 12 years from now
wonder why it's not working I can't
really imagine why we need to stop
focusing on the paper and start focusing
on the education itself the education
itself is what it's important because we
as a society have just talked about that
paper
Bill Gates said that research shows that
there is only half as much variation in
student achievement between schools as
there is among classrooms in the same
school if you want your child to get the
best education possible it is actually
more important to get him assigned to a
great teacher than a great school and
that makes sense that makes sense
because that teacher well they can
instill
a belief in the value of education as a
whole rather than pursuing that diploma
that teacher can combat society and the
views that we instill in the children I
think that's a little much to be asking
of our teachers I don't think they
should have to fight society a society
that is geared against them to do their
job that that's a tall order so when you
look at those studies that say well more
money spent produces better outcomes
it's because the people in those
communities have shown that they value
education they're willing to pay for it
they're willing to spend more that idea
that belief was probably passed down to
their kids so they value education as a
whole it's not money the reasons for
people dropping out have nothing to do
with money
and that is focusing on the extreme that
is focusing on those to drop out and we
do need a wider approach education is a
community asset a successful society we
want everyone educated to the highest
extent possible but instead we talk
about job skills yeah and right now
we're looking at this is this is the
whole problem yes we need to change our
attitude towards education as a whole
and we need to do it quick in the mean
time oh yeah clear the lists clear the
list give these teachers tools they need
to do their job but at the same time
advocate to teach the Arts to teach
music to teach humanities to teach all
the things that won't get them a job all
those skills that aren't marketable
because that's what makes things
interesting that's what gives value to
education we have got to change our
entire attitude towards education as a
whole anyway it's just a thought now
this is normally where the show wins but
this kind of pilot episode for our
podcast thank the people over on patreon
I said when we got to a thousand
subscribers we would start doing it
we're like eight hundred and something
hi eight hundreds so I figured I better
get my ducks in a row so you're about to
get to see what its gonna look like I
would like your input and if you like
what you see head over to patreon so
this week in history August 26
14:29 Joan of Arc made her triumphant
entry into Paris on the same date in
1789 in Versailles France the
declaration on human rights was approved
August 31st 1919 workers of the world
unite the Communist Labor Party was
founded in Chicago August 26 1920 the
19th amendment to the Constitution is
ratified women have the right to vote
August 27 1928 15 Nations sign on to the
kellogg-briand pact later on another 47
nations would join it outlawed war said
we would seek negotiations and
arbitration to solve our problems sadly
had just caused countries to stop
declaring war and continuing to fight
anyway August 29 1957 US Congress passes
the Civil Rights Act after the longest
filibuster in Senate history put on by
Strom Thurmond August 31st 1961 citizens
of Berlin woke up to see the barbed wire
fence changed to a concrete wall which
would later be known as the Berlin wall
August 28 1963 one of the biggest
demonstrations in US history happened it
was called the march on Washington for
Jobs and Freedom and it ended with a
charismatic southern preacher telling us
that he had a dream August 30th 1963
hotline was established between Moscow
and Washington DC to deal with nuclear
crisis August 30th 1967 Thurgood
Marshall was confirmed as the first
black Supreme Court justice August 26
1970 there was a nationwide strike for
women's equality on the 50th anniversary
of the passage of the 19th amendment
August 31st 1994 the Irish Republican
Army the IRA announced a complete
secession of military operations and
paved the way to peace for the first
time in 25 years and now it is time for
today's afterthought education is the
passport to the future for tomorrow
belongs to those who prepare for it
today Malcolm X no education is wasted
none it's all-important it doesn't
matter what it is it is applicable to
other things in your life that is
something that we need to start in
stealing in society as a whole and
society as a whole but see there are
things that are playing against us there
are images and stereotypes that
discourage young people from taking an
active interest in their education the
stereotypes are different the idea is
the things that push back against it are
different among men and women men seem
to be the biggest culprits of failing to
want to educate themselves so we're
gonna talk about them first and probably
a little bit of a greater detail the
idea that holds most men back in school
from educating themselves well they
don't want to be a nerd they want to
don't want to be weak they don't want to
get picked on tough guys aren't
brainiacs they're an art smart when's
the last time you know heard of a real
tough guy with a master's general chaos
Mad Dog Madison self if there is
somebody in popular culture today that
is the tough guy icon it's probably
mattis right his other nickname is the
warrior monk and I know people who have
worked for him the memes are all true he
is that tough he is that abrasive and he
will knife hand you to death as
bachelors is in history his masters is
in international relations with a focus
on security no tough guys the real tough
guys those that are held up as the icons
yeah they are educated
some of them formally educated there's
another guy his name's Richard Marcinko
demo dick shark man of the Delta this is
the guy who founded and built SEAL team
6 when you think of SILS
today the modern image of a seal it's
coming from sill team six and he built
it his bachelor's in international
relations his master's is in political
science
got another one for you this guy's a
little different he didn't go on and get
higher higher education he went to the
University of Georgia I think if I'm
wrong about that sorry but he didn't go
on to get advanced degrees or anything
like that because he joined the army and
he was part of Operation hot foot and
Laos just a lowly field officer after
that he did a tour with the SAS Special
Air Service in the United Kingdom he
went over there and learned from them
and he went to Malaysia I believe and
helped them in their counterinsurgency
operations there he contracted a disease
and was triaged is beyond help in other
words don't waste your resources on this
guy he's gonna die he survived he
survived but that time with SAS appears
to have been transformative he came back
to 7th Special Forces and he was just
appalled that unconventional warriors
didn't know anything about conventional
tactics that their training was wrong
their education was wrong we need to fix
everything and he did he came up with a
new training program that training
program today is known as the Q course
and if you want to get a green beret
today you have to go through it
education became really important after
completely transforming US Army Special
Forces he headed back to Southeast Asia
went to Vietnam took a 50 caliber round
to the abdomen was triaged as beyond
help
don't waste your resources he's gonna
die and he survived again that would
normally be enough to put somebody out
of the military I'm done with this nope
he decided that there were other units
that needed his help
so he revamped Ranger school next the
Florida phase of Ranger School was based
on stuff from World War two wasn't
useful we need a better education we
needed to apply things that we learned
since then because education never ends
so he did bad and then he went on to
develop something else he founded
something that in official terminology
was became first special forces
operational detachment-delta - most of
you
Delta Force guy founded a unit that has
become the pinnacle of the US Army guy
was so tough that in the 80s when they
made a movie about him they needed
somebody to embody Chuck Norris anok mom
and at the end of the day what is he
really known for other than founding
Delta Force putting a value on education
within the Special Operations community
of the United States that's really his
crowning achievement because even if he
had only done that Delta would come into
existence that education is what makes
those tough guys tough guys the idea of
the week nerd needs to die it's stupid
if you fancy yourself as a tough guy you
need to understand that if you ever want
to compete among the real tough guys you
better get an education you better get
an education being smart does not make
you weak that's not
now with women it's a different story
because society tends to elevate the
superficial over substance beauty over
brains type of thing women I've seen it
time and time again and is very annoying
women have become conditioned to play
dumb because they don't want to
intimidate men don't never do that never
do that especially if you're talking
about somebody who you're interested in
dating these can't hide your
intelligence forever it's just gonna
cause problems down the road more
importantly do you want somebody who
can't challenge you of course not of
course not and the best men I know they
all married smart women but to be honest
that's not a good reason to do it
because education enriches your life
your life your motivation should be
what's good for you not how to land a
man you're a prize if you want to go
with that mindset of your purpose is to
find a man you're a prize if you can't
keep up find someone better
do not let society's glorification of
the Paris Hilton's and Kim Kardashian's
of the world convince you that you don't
need an education you do and it's not
just a matter of need it's good it's
good for you it's good for everybody no
education is wasted never stop learning
always stay curious
anyway this is just a thought and
welcome to our do-gooder showcase since
we're talking about education we're
going to talk about one of my favorite
educational causes
it's called pencils promise and they
build schools about 500 or so of them in
countries like Honduras Ghana places
like that hundreds of thousands of
students have gone through there and it
provides a benefit it helps the
education helps lift these communities
it helps create self-sustaining
communities makes them harder to exploit
in that vein over on our teespring shop
there's a new t-shirt hurricane nuke
team 50% of the proceeds go to pencils
of promise so now it's time for q and
A's you said you have an ideological
problem with the ing bi what is it I
look at things
there were longer scope I don't believe
in the benevolence of government and I
think that the ubi as an idea sounds
great until you realize it is going to
help create worker bees I don't think
that the government is necessarily there
to help you the United States government
is extremely corrupt
and I don't know they're relying on an
institution that corrupt is a great
thing cost a living will go up and that
you be I'll stay the same are you a
Democrat Republican Green or libertarian
nope
I just graduated high school I've
watched you since you started you're a
father figure not in a creepy daddy
issues way
give me some life-changing advice what
you believe doesn't matter what you
believe doesn't matter what you do
matters conviction is worthless unless
it is converted into conduct they'll
change the world how can you support
wounded warriors your anti-imperialist
for the same reason I have a tendency to
hire ex-cons I don't believe that
decisions made when somebody is 18 or 19
should preclude them from help
especially if they're hurt so we're
gonna close out tonight with a story
some of you have heard this story before
it's a story I heard when I was a kid it
has stayed with me and it seems very
relevant to the theme of Education
there's a guy and he he just loved
astronauts anything to do with space
lopped it and he gets on a plane
and sure enough an astronaut I can't
remember which one it was but one of the
famous ones ends up sitting right next
to him so he keeps trying to strike up a
conversation with him and he keeps kind
of making a fool of himself you know and
eventually to get away from this guy
more than likely the astronaut pulls out
a book and starts reading and the book
is on Portuguese art and the guy asks
him you're an astronaut why are you
reading a book on Portuguese art and the
astronaut responded by saying because I
don't know anything about it that is a
reason to read a book that is a reason
no education is wasted anyway y'all have
a good week